README.md, before:

# AI Documentation Assistant

## Problem Description
This project provides a simple AI-powered assistant to query and explore documentation through a backend API.  
The goal is to demonstrate a complete AI-enabled system with a clear API contract, reproducible setup, and documented architecture.

---

## System Overview
The system is composed of:
- A backend API implemented with FastAPI
- Automatically generated API documentation using OpenAPI / Swagger
- A simple query interface (backend-focused in the current version)

The project emphasizes clarity, reproducibility, and clean system structure rather than complex AI modeling.

---

## AI-assisted Development
AI tools were used throughout the development process to:
- Assist with code generation and refactoring
- Help structure the project and directory layout
- Improve documentation quality and clarity

The focus was on using AI as a development assistant rather than as the core application logic.

---

## MCP Usage
This project is designed to be compatible with an MCP-based workflow.

In a full implementation, an MCP server could be added to expose tools for querying and reasoning over documentation content.  
The current version focuses on the backend API and OpenAPI contract, with MCP integration planned as a future extension.

---

## Technologies & Architecture
- **Backend:** FastAPI (Python)
- **API specification:** OpenAPI 3.1
- **API documentation:** Swagger UI (auto-generated by FastAPI)
- **Environment:** Python virtual environment
- **Version control:** Git

The backend serves as the core component and exposes a clean, well-documented API that can be consumed by a frontend or other services.

---

## Frontend
The current version focuses on the backend API.

The API can be explored and tested interactively using Swagger UI, which serves as a lightweight frontend for development and review purposes.

---

## API Contract (OpenAPI)
The backend API is documented using the OpenAPI specification.

- **Interactive API documentation (Swagger UI):**  
  http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

- **Machine-readable OpenAPI specification:**  
  See `openapi.yaml` in the project root.

The `openapi.yaml` file serves as the contract between frontend and backend and was generated automatically from the FastAPI application.

---

## Backend Implementation

The backend is implemented using FastAPI and exposes the following endpoints:

- `GET /health` — Health check endpoint  
- `POST /query` — Submit a query request

 The backend strictly follows the OpenAPI specification and can be validated through Swagger UI.

---

## Database
A lightweight SQLite database is used for persistence.

The database is initialized automatically when the backend starts.
Submitted queries are stored in a local SQLite file (`backend/app.db`).

This minimal database layer demonstrates persistence and can be extended
to other databases (e.g. PostgreSQL) if needed.

---

## Containerization
The application can be containerized using Docker.

A Dockerfile is provided to build and run the backend API in a containerized environment.

---

## Testing
Basic testing is planned as a future improvement.

The current focus of the project is on API structure, documentation, and reproducibility rather than extensive test coverage.

---

## Deployment
The application can be deployed to a cloud provider such as Render or Fly.io.

Deployment is not required for the current version, as the project focuses on local execution and API documentation.

---

## CI/CD
A CI pipeline is planned to automatically run tests on each push.

This has been left out of the current version to keep the project scope focused and minimal.

---

## How to Run Locally

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.10 or newer
- pip

### Steps

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
   pip install fastapi uvicorn
```
2.	Start the backend server:
```bash
cd backend
uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```
3.	Open the API documentation in your browser:
http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

## Reproducibility
A reviewer can clone the repository, start the backend, and explore the API using Swagger UI without additional configuration.

Commit message:

Add minimal MCP-style echo tool

README.md, after:

# AI Documentation Assistant

## Problem Description
This project provides a simple AI-powered assistant to query and explore documentation through a backend API.  
The goal is to demonstrate a complete AI-enabled system with a clear API contract, reproducible setup, and documented architecture.

---

## System Overview
The system is composed of:
- A backend API implemented with FastAPI
- Automatically generated API documentation using OpenAPI / Swagger
- A simple query interface (backend-focused in the current version)

The project emphasizes clarity, reproducibility, and clean system structure rather than complex AI modeling.

---

## AI-assisted Development and MCP Usage

AI tools were used throughout the development process to assist with code generation,
project structuring, debugging, and documentation.

In addition, a minimal MCP-style tool is included (`mcp_server.py`) to demonstrate
how AI tools could be exposed via an MCP-compatible interface.

The current implementation provides a simple echo tool as a placeholder,
illustrating the intended integration pattern.

---

## MCP Usage
This project is designed to be compatible with an MCP-based workflow.

In a full implementation, an MCP server could be added to expose tools for querying and reasoning over documentation content.  
The current version focuses on the backend API and OpenAPI contract, with MCP integration planned as a future extension.

---

## Technologies & Architecture
- **Backend:** FastAPI (Python)
- **API specification:** OpenAPI 3.1
- **API documentation:** Swagger UI (auto-generated by FastAPI)
- **Environment:** Python virtual environment
- **Version control:** Git

The backend serves as the core component and exposes a clean, well-documented API that can be consumed by a frontend or other services.

---

## Frontend
The current version focuses on the backend API.

The API can be explored and tested interactively using Swagger UI, which serves as a lightweight frontend for development and review purposes.

---

## API Contract (OpenAPI)
The backend API is documented using the OpenAPI specification.

- **Interactive API documentation (Swagger UI):**  
  http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

- **Machine-readable OpenAPI specification:**  
  See `openapi.yaml` in the project root.

The `openapi.yaml` file serves as the contract between frontend and backend and was generated automatically from the FastAPI application.

---

## Backend Implementation

The backend is implemented using FastAPI and exposes the following endpoints:

- `GET /health` — Health check endpoint  
- `POST /query` — Submit a query request

 The backend strictly follows the OpenAPI specification and can be validated through Swagger UI.

---

## Database
A lightweight SQLite database is used for persistence.

The database is initialized automatically when the backend starts.
Submitted queries are stored in a local SQLite file (`backend/app.db`).

This minimal database layer demonstrates persistence and can be extended
to other databases (e.g. PostgreSQL) if needed.

---

## Containerization
The application can be containerized using Docker.

A Dockerfile is provided to build and run the backend API in a containerized environment.

---

## Testing
Basic testing is planned as a future improvement.

The current focus of the project is on API structure, documentation, and reproducibility rather than extensive test coverage.

---

## Deployment
The application can be deployed to a cloud provider such as Render or Fly.io.

Deployment is not required for the current version, as the project focuses on local execution and API documentation.

---

## CI/CD
A CI pipeline is planned to automatically run tests on each push.

This has been left out of the current version to keep the project scope focused and minimal.

---

## How to Run Locally

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.10 or newer
- pip

### Steps

1. Install dependencies:
```bash
   pip install fastapi uvicorn
```
2.	Start the backend server:
```bash
cd backend
uvicorn main:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000
```
3.	Open the API documentation in your browser:
http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

## Reproducibility
A reviewer can clone the repository, start the backend, and explore the API using Swagger UI without additional configuration.
